README.md, before:

# java-webapp-lite: a tiny and lightweight Java web-framework

Follow the instructions below to set up a sample page.


### A word on dependencies (required libraries)

This project uses the Gradle build system for dependency-management and packaging.
If you are unfamiliar with Gradle, or if you use another approach to manage your dependencies, you will need to acquire the libraries that this framework depends on.

You can find the complete list of libraries inside build.gradle file, in the "dependencies" { } block.


### Set up the framework in your web.xml (you only need to do this once)

The setup below assumes that all your controllers will reside in package "com.mywebsite.controllers".

```xml
<!-- Page controller servlet (locates controllers for various pages) -->
<filter>
  <filter-name>PageControllerFilter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.universeprojects.web.PageControllerFilter</filter-class>
  <init-param>
    <param-name>uriPrefix</param-name>
    <param-value>/</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <init-param>
    <param-name>baseScanPackage</param-name>
    <param-value>com.mywebsite.controllers</param-value>
  </init-param>
</filter>
<filter-mapping>
  <filter-name>PageControllerFilter</filter-name>
  <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
</filter-mapping>
```

### Create a controller for your page

Every JSP page is coupled with a "controller", which is a Java class.

The idea here is to separate logic from presentation as much as possible. All calculations / decisions should be made in the controller, and then these values are passed along to the JSP for rendering.

```java
package com.mywebsite.controllers;

import com.universeprojects.web.Controller;
import com.universeprojects.web.PageController;

import javax.servlet.ServletException;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpSession;
import java.io.IOException;

@Controller
public class HelloController extends PageController {
  super("hello");
}

@Override
protected final String processRequest(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) 
  throws ServletException, IOException {
  
  // set request attributes, to be accessible in the JSP page
  request.setAttribute("message", "Hello World!");
  
  return "/WEB-INF/pages/hello.jsp";
}

```

### Create JSP page /WEB-INF/pages/hello.jsp

This file path matches the String value returned from the controller's processRequest() method.

You aren't strictly required to keep your JSPs in this particular directory, however this is the recommended practice because the server will prevent direct client access to anything residing under "/WEB-INF".

This JSP file is in charge of the presentation of the values that come out of the controller.
Notice, that request argument "message" sent from the controller is referenced here as ${message}.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>My Website</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h3 style="color: red">Message: ${message}</h3>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Access your page

Once you deploy your application, the sample page will be accessible at URL "**(deployment_root)**/hello"

Note that the "/hello" part corresponds to the page name "hello", defined in the controller's constructor.

Commit message:

Prepend a "what does this do" section to README.md
This is a first cut of the section; To be expanded / improved in the near future.

README.md, after:

# java-webapp-lite: a tiny and lightweight Java web-framework

### What does this framework do?

The main idea behind this framework is discouraging the use of Java scriptlets inside JSPs. 
Though they may seem like a handy shortcut, scriptlets come with a number of costly drawbacks:

 * They are difficult to debug, as in many cases exception stack traces are obfuscated
 * IDE support for scriptlets is worse than for pure Java classes (auto-complete, refactoring, etc.)
 * The code is awkward to read because it is intertwined with HTML tags

These drawbacks are severe enough to move away from the practice altogether, and seek a better alternative.

As a general software design rule, it's in our best interest to separate logic (calculations and decisions) from presentation code (layout and styling). This makes the implementation more maintainable, and helps reduce "code distraction". 

In a nutshell, this is how it all works together:
 1. Every JSP page has a Java class associated with it, called a "controller". The JSP itself contains no Java code.
 2. Upon every access to the page, its Java controller runs first to prepare a "data payload" for the page
 3. The data payload is then handed over to the JSP, which incorporates it into HTML for rendering



### A word on dependencies (required libraries)

This project uses the Gradle build system for dependency-management and packaging.
If you are unfamiliar with Gradle, or if you use another approach to manage your dependencies, you will need to acquire the libraries that this framework depends on.

You can find the complete list of libraries inside build.gradle file, in the "dependencies" { } block.


### Set up the framework in your web.xml (you only need to do this once)

The setup below assumes that all your controllers will reside in package "com.mywebsite.controllers".

```xml
<!-- Page controller servlet (locates controllers for various pages) -->
<filter>
  <filter-name>PageControllerFilter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.universeprojects.web.PageControllerFilter</filter-class>
  <init-param>
    <param-name>uriPrefix</param-name>
    <param-value>/</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <init-param>
    <param-name>baseScanPackage</param-name>
    <param-value>com.mywebsite.controllers</param-value>
  </init-param>
</filter>
<filter-mapping>
  <filter-name>PageControllerFilter</filter-name>
  <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
</filter-mapping>
```

### Create a controller for your page

Every JSP page is coupled with a "controller", which is a Java class.

The idea here is to separate logic from presentation as much as possible. All calculations / decisions should be made in the controller, and then these values are passed along to the JSP for rendering.

```java
package com.mywebsite.controllers;

import com.universeprojects.web.Controller;
import com.universeprojects.web.PageController;

import javax.servlet.ServletException;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
import javax.servlet.http.HttpSession;
import java.io.IOException;

@Controller
public class HelloController extends PageController {
  super("hello");
}

@Override
protected final String processRequest(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) 
  throws ServletException, IOException {
  
  // set request attributes, to be accessible in the JSP page
  request.setAttribute("message", "Hello World!");
  
  return "/WEB-INF/pages/hello.jsp";
}

```

### Create JSP page /WEB-INF/pages/hello.jsp

This file path matches the String value returned from the controller's processRequest() method.

You aren't strictly required to keep your JSPs in this particular directory, however this is the recommended practice because the server will prevent direct client access to anything residing under "/WEB-INF".

This JSP file is in charge of the presentation of the values that come out of the controller.
Notice, that request argument "message" sent from the controller is referenced here as ${message}.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>My Website</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h3 style="color: red">Message: ${message}</h3>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Access your page

Once you deploy your application, the sample page will be accessible at URL "**(deployment_root)**/hello"

Note that the "/hello" part corresponds to the page name "hello", defined in the controller's constructor.
